# KataQ

KataQ : A Software Solution For Water Scarcity in Kenya

Problem Analysis:

Water scarcity is a big problem in Kenya, both in rural and urban areas. With a population of 53 million, 15% of Kenyans rely on unimproved water sources while 41% of Kenyans lack access to basic sanitation solutions. These challenges are highlighted in rural areas and urban slums where citizens are unable to connect to piped water infrastructure. In rural areas, the total cost for an unreliable or distant water supply on average is about Ksh 4,000 per month. The average water bill for a Nairobi household connected to piped infrastructure is only about Ksh 500. This comparison highlights economic burdens that often fall more heavily on unconnected rural dwellers than on households with piped infrastructure. It is also important to note that there are many areas where piped connections do not produce a reliable or constant flow of water. Bearing in mind the COVID-19 pandemic and other diseases, access to clean and safe water is critical to the health of Kenyan families and households.

Purpose of the solution:

Big Tuna is an application that will be able to link the Kenyan citizens with water vendors across the country, in their preferred quantities at very affordable rates all at the comfort of their own homes. The solution aims to bring convenience, efficiency and effectiveness in the water supply and distribution sector. The solution is also in line with Sustainable Development Goal 6 (Clean water and sanitation) which aims to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.

KataQ APP USER FLOWS

On opening app, one is prompted to register either as a seller or as a user. Forgot password where if you forget password, you can recover your password, email sent to buyer/seller to change password.

SELLER: The seller specifies information such as name of the shop and the delivery fee as well as their location. Location specified through the GPS button in the top right in registering as well as editing seller information. The seller can also specify if his shop is closed or open in the edit seller activity. Upon registering, the seller is directed to the main page where the seller can add products and view orders from buyers that have bought water from the shop. The seller is able to see the reviews from the buyers by clicking the star icon. The seller upon clicking the add cart button is able to add products to his shop, specified by categories. The seller can also add quantity of the products and prices and add discounts. The products are shown in the products tab where clicking on a product brings an option of updating or deleting the product. The seller can change the status of the order by clicking on the specific order to in progress,cancelled or completed. The seller can then search for the products in the search bar as well as filter through the categories. The seller can then search for orders made in the search bar as well as filter through the order status which include in progress, completed or cancelled.

BUYER: The buyer specifies information such as their name as well as their location. Location specified through the GPS button in the top right in registering as well as editing buyer information. The buyer is directed to the main page showing the shops on the platform and an orders tab showing orders already made. The buyer can then see if the shop is closed or open and whether the seller is online which is indicated by a green square on the profile picture of the shop. The buyer can also see the reviews of the shop with the rating as stars below it. On clicking the shop, the buyer can see the shop details which shows the name,phone number, email, delivery fee and location of the seller. The status of the shop is also shown there, whether closed or open. The buyer is able to call the seller and see the location as well. The buyer can search for products that the shop sells and filter through the products. Upon clicking on a product, the buyer can specify the quantity they would like to purchase and add to their cart. Once added to cart, the user clicks on the cart to place their order. The orders will be listed plus the delivery fee and the buyer can confirm the order. On confirming order, the order details are displayed to buyer including total amount with the delivery address and total items ordered. The buyers can also write a review of the shop and publish it, where the reviews will be displayed.
